README.md, before:

# Milestone Project 1:
## The Shift_Work Gym
Website link: https://xander-webdev.github.io/The_Shift_Work_Out/index.html

This is my first Milestone project for my Diploma in Software Development. I decided to create a website that accommodated shift workers due to a few reasons. Firstly, I am a shift worker myself and I know the pain of having to sometimes miss my favourite classes at the gym due to the classes being rigid and only accommodating those who work 9 to 5’s or set working hours. Secondly, due to the global pandemic (COVID-19) I wanted to create a website that was a little tribute to some of the essential workers out there who are working crazy shifts on the front line trying to get this pandemic under control. 
Thank you for your service, this one’s for you.
# UX
I had 3 user stories in mind when designing this project. These would be the primary customer base however they can also vary slightly off of these. 
1. User Story 1: The user struggles to find motivation to keep coming to the gym and needs an external stimulus to keep motivated and dedicated. This can be in the form of the community support, attendance discount or flexible opening hours.
2. User Story 2: The user is a seasoned gym goer looking to increase the value of their gym experience. This user doesn’t really need to be motivated and will play an active part in the community mentoring others or offering advice. 
3. User Story 3: This user is similar to User 1 in the sense that they lack motivation to keep coming to the gym. However, this user is also looking to lose weight and becoming healthier and does not know where to start. 
4. User Story 4: This user is a shift worker so their time to come to the gym and workout are not the same every week. The 24/7 class times and the 24/7 opening hours will really help to accommodate them in this.
Note: All the users are shift workers and have inconsistent working hours.
 
I wanted a fitness/ gym website that instilled trust and was also easy to use. I tried to make the website as simple and straightforward as possible while still remaining visually appealing.
ADD BALSAMIC WIREFRAMES.
# Features
The website consists of 4 separate pages. The home page which gives a short description of the concept of the company as well as the benefits of joining.. The Membership section displays our 3 membership packages. The classes page displays the 9 different classes that are on offer and a brief description of each. The contact page has a contact form to fill in and when the button submit is selected a modal pops up to tell the user the message has been received.
Existing Features
Membership Modal - Allows users to fill in a form and sign up for the specific plan they would like.
Users can easily navigate the website from the nav bar in the header or in the footer.
The website has been built to look great on both mobile and desktop views
Features Left to Implement
Adding Javascript logic to the website to ensure it functions correctly.
Technologies Used
HTML5
The project uses HTML5 as the main technology to build the layout and the structure of the website. 
Bootstrap
The project uses Bootstrap so that I could build the website quickly and efficiently and then easily customise it with my own CSS. I also used Bootstraps Modals for pop ups.
CSS3
The project uses CSS3 to style the pages and add custom stylings to each individual page as well as consistent style to elements present on every page such as the header and the footer.



# Testing
User Story 1: The user struggles to find motivation to keep coming to the gym and needs an external stimulus to keep motivated and dedicated. This can be in the form of the community support, attendance discount or flexible opening hours.
1. The website caters to User 1 as it offers an external stimulus of offering community support and motivation to keep on pursuing their fitness goals. It also provides motivation in a monetary form as members can get attendance discounts for every visit.
2. User Story 2: The user is a seasoned gym goer looking to increase the value of their gym experience. This user doesn’t really need to be motivated and will play an active part in the community mentoring others or offering advice. 
The website caters to User 2 as they don’t need to be motivated too much to come into the gym. What we would like to do is to increase their training frequency so it will be motivation for other members to continue to come. They will also most likely offer advice to less experienced users getting started. I believe these users will increase their training frequency especially since they are able to receive a discount simply for going to the gym.
3. User Story 3: This user is similar to User 1 in the sense that they lack motivation to keep coming to the gym. However, this user is also looking to lose weight and becoming healthier and does not know where to start.
User 3 will be kept motivated towards their goals with monthly health screening to use as milestones to track their progress. They will also be looking to lose weight but cannot find the motivation to go to train on their own. They are able to attend unlimited classes on all memberships so that they just need to show up!
4. User Story 4: This user is a shift worker so their time to come to the gym and workout are not the same every week. 
 
I have tested the links to ensure that all of them are working as well as the modals when they buttons are clicked. I have also made sure that the website is responsive to each screen size and that it still offers the desired user experience.
My contact form on the Contact us page will not allow a user to submit without filling in all the fields. This way we can ensure that we have all the correct information from the customers from the start.
An interesting bug I discovered was when I clicked the button for the modal in the membership sections, the button would briefly jump to be the full height of the parent element. I later discovered this was because I didn’t set the “Top” value in css and only set the “Bottom” value.
 
# Deployment
This section should describe the process you went through to deploy the project to a hosting platform (e.g. GitHub Pages or Heroku).
In particular, you should provide all details of the differences between the deployed version and the development version, if any, including:
Different values for environment variables (Heroku Config Vars)?
Different configuration files?
Separate git branch?
In addition, if it is not obvious, you should also describe how to run your code locally.
# Credits
## Media
The photos used in this site were obtained from www.pexels.com
Addition Credit  to
1. gym image 1 Photo by Victor Freitas from Pexels
2. gym image 2 Photo by Leon Martinez from Pexels
3. gym image 3 Photo by Victor Freitas from Pexels
4. gym image 4 Photo by Andrea Piacquadio from Pexels

## Acknowledgements
I received inspiration for this project from :
1. Puregym. I tried to use the same color scheme as their website. I was a member of Puregym for a long time and absolutely loved their online platform and facilities.
2. Trainmore gym who gives attendance discounts to their members. Fantastic idea!
3. Snapfitness for their 24/7 training schedule

These websites provided me with invaluable information:
1. https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_colors.asp
2. https://www.bestcssbuttongenerator.com/#/2
3. https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_gradients.asp
4. https://htmlcolorcodes.com/color-picker/
5. https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_mediaqueries.asp
6. https://coolors.co/
7. https://css-tricks.com/examples/hrs/
8. And ofcourse, Code Institute, the tutors, the mentors and the course material. In the beginning of the project I relied heavily on the Bootstrap Resume Project for help with the outlines of the website and to ensure it was structured properly!

Commit message:

I separated each page's css into their own file for ease of reading. I also added a few accessible alt tags into the html to ensure that it will show up incase of a site failure, I believe this will be the final commit for now

README.md, after:

# Milestone Project 1:
## The Shift_Work Gym
Website link: https://xander-webdev.github.io/The_Shift_Work_Out/index.html

This is my first Milestone project for my Diploma in Software Development. I decided to create a website that accommodated shift workers due to a few reasons. Firstly, I am a shift worker myself and I know the pain of having to sometimes miss my favourite classes at the gym due to the classes being rigid and only accommodating those who work 9 to 5’s or set working hours. Secondly, due to the global pandemic (COVID-19) I wanted to create a website that was a little tribute to some of the essential workers out there who are working crazy shifts on the front line trying to get this pandemic under control. 
Thank you for your service, this one’s for you.
# UX
I had 3 user stories in mind when designing this project. These would be the primary customer base however they can also vary slightly off of these. 
1. User Story 1: The user struggles to find motivation to keep coming to the gym and needs an external stimulus to keep motivated and dedicated. This can be in the form of the community support, attendance discount or flexible opening hours.
2. User Story 2: The user is a seasoned gym goer looking to increase the value of their gym experience. This user doesn’t really need to be motivated and will play an active part in the community mentoring others or offering advice. 
3. User Story 3: This user is similar to User 1 in the sense that they lack motivation to keep coming to the gym. However, this user is also looking to lose weight and becoming healthier and does not know where to start. 
4. User Story 4: This user is a shift worker so their time to come to the gym and workout are not the same every week. The 24/7 class times and the 24/7 opening hours will really help to accommodate them in this.
Note: All the users are shift workers and have inconsistent working hours.
 
I wanted a fitness/ gym website that instilled trust and was also easy to use. I tried to make the website as simple and straightforward as possible while still remaining visually appealing.
ADD BALSAMIC WIREFRAMES.
# Features
The website consists of 4 separate pages. The home page which gives a short description of the concept of the company as well as the benefits of joining.. The Membership section displays our 3 membership packages. The classes page displays the 9 different classes that are on offer and a brief description of each. The contact page has a contact form to fill in and when the button submit is selected a modal pops up to tell the user the message has been received.
Existing Features
Membership Modal - Allows users to fill in a form and sign up for the specific plan they would like.
Users can easily navigate the website from the nav bar in the header or in the footer.
The website has been built to look great on both mobile and desktop views
Features Left to Implement
Adding Javascript logic to the website to ensure it functions correctly.
Technologies Used
HTML5
The project uses HTML5 as the main technology to build the layout and the structure of the website. 
Bootstrap
The project uses Bootstrap so that I could build the website quickly and efficiently and then easily customise it with my own CSS. I also used Bootstraps Modals for pop ups.
CSS3
The project uses CSS3 to style the pages and add custom stylings to each individual page as well as consistent style to elements present on every page such as the header and the footer.



# Testing
User Story 1: The user struggles to find motivation to keep coming to the gym and needs an external stimulus to keep motivated and dedicated. This can be in the form of the community support, attendance discount or flexible opening hours.
1. The website caters to User 1 as it offers an external stimulus of offering community support and motivation to keep on pursuing their fitness goals. It also provides motivation in a monetary form as members can get attendance discounts for every visit.
2. User Story 2: The user is a seasoned gym goer looking to increase the value of their gym experience. This user doesn’t really need to be motivated and will play an active part in the community mentoring others or offering advice. 
The website caters to User 2 as they don’t need to be motivated too much to come into the gym. What we would like to do is to increase their training frequency so it will be motivation for other members to continue to come. They will also most likely offer advice to less experienced users getting started. I believe these users will increase their training frequency especially since they are able to receive a discount simply for going to the gym.
3. User Story 3: This user is similar to User 1 in the sense that they lack motivation to keep coming to the gym. However, this user is also looking to lose weight and becoming healthier and does not know where to start.
User 3 will be kept motivated towards their goals with monthly health screening to use as milestones to track their progress. They will also be looking to lose weight but cannot find the motivation to go to train on their own. They are able to attend unlimited classes on all memberships so that they just need to show up!
4. User Story 4: This user is a shift worker so their time to come to the gym and workout are not the same every week. 
 
I have tested the links to ensure that all of them are working as well as the modals when they buttons are clicked. I have also made sure that the website is responsive to each screen size and that it still offers the desired user experience.
My contact form on the Contact us page will not allow a user to submit without filling in all the fields. This way we can ensure that we have all the correct information from the customers from the start.
An interesting bug I discovered was when I clicked the button for the modal in the membership sections, the button would briefly jump to be the full height of the parent element. I later discovered this was because I didn’t set the “Top” value in css and only set the “Bottom” value.
 
# Deployment
The deployment of this project was simple. I simply created a repository on github and initialized it from the command line within github. I made sure to continue to commit and push to github to keep track of the versions. Although my github and gitpod knowledge is slim, I am looking to expand it in the coming lessons.
# Credits
## Media
The photos used in this site were obtained from www.pexels.com
Addition Credit  to
1. gym image 1 Photo by Victor Freitas from Pexels
2. gym image 2 Photo by Leon Martinez from Pexels
3. gym image 3 Photo by Victor Freitas from Pexels
4. gym image 4 Photo by Andrea Piacquadio from Pexels

## Acknowledgements
I received inspiration for this project from :
1. Puregym. I used a similar color scheme as their website. I was a member of Puregym for a long time and absolutely loved their online platform and facilities.
2. Trainmore gym who gives attendance discounts to their members. Fantastic idea and incentive considering most gyms have 4 or 5 times capacity of their building because they people buy contracts and never use it.
3. Snapfitness for their 24/7 training schedule

These websites provided me with invaluable information:
1. https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_colors.asp
2. https://www.bestcssbuttongenerator.com/#/2
3. https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_gradients.asp
4. https://htmlcolorcodes.com/color-picker/
5. https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_mediaqueries.asp
6. https://coolors.co/
7. https://css-tricks.com/examples/hrs/
8. And ofcourse, Code Institute, the tutors, the mentors and the course material. In the beginning of the project I relied quite a lot on the Bootstrap Resume Project for help with the outlines of the website's bootstrap components and to ensure it was structured properly! After building one outline of a page, I had a firm grasp of bootstrap and could work by myself using the bootstrap built in classes.

Thank you for taking the time to view this project and I urge you to watch this space because I had so much fun creating this project and I cannot wait to build applications with more functionality and flexibility!
